#Stock-Movement-prediction-Using-Machine-Learning-Model-K-Means-Clustering
#Data frame Implementation 
The necessary library ‘pandas’ and ‘numpy’ are imported to improvise the work in python 3. A dictionary ‘companies_dict’ is defined where ‘key’ is company’s name and ‘value’ is company’s stock code, 9 companies, 3 index and 3 commodities &currency are considered on there. Stock market data is extracted from yahoo finance, Onvista. The time period considered is from ‘2016–01–01’ to ‘2020–12–31’except Bitcoin-EUR. The stock movement of companies would be compared based on these 6 features column- ‘High’, ‘Low’, ‘Open’, ‘Close’, ‘Volume’, ‘Adj Close’. Data frame consist of two features of the dataset such as ‘Open’ and ‘Close’. The reason for choose these 2 features to identify the movements of the companies. ‘movement’ is defined as difference of opening and closing prices of a particular day. Sum of movements showed positive values and negative values of different companies which define respectively to go long(buy) on these stocks and to short(sell) the stocks. Stock prices of different companies have different scales. Thus, x units of change in stock price of one company is not the same as x units of change in stock price of other companies. Some companies are worth a lot more than other companies. Hence the data has to be ‘normalized’. It is required only when features have different ranges like in the present scenario. ‘normlize_movements’ is defined as normalized version of ‘movements’. The Normalizer rescales each row of ‘movements’ independently.
#Methodology 
 ##Kmeans Clustering Algorithm
  * This project seeks to enhance and implement the algorithm (using scikit-learn library) proposed by using a more rigorous way of choosing the number of clusters K and predict the movements. To determine the effectiveness of companies' daily stock price movements are ran separately with implementing k-means model. K-means algorithm is used to optimize each cluster and ‘K-means++’ is used to find initial points. secondly, gather the remaining sample dots to their focal points in accordance with the criterion of minimum distance (Euclidean distance-), then we will get the initial classified cluster, and if the classification is unreasonable, we will modify it (calculate each cluster focal points again), iterate repetitively till we get a reasonable classification. In order to evaluate stock movements from the clustering results need to check the position(‘pos_clus’) of each data point between 1 and -1. The value of K is identified by Silhouette coefficient score [Silhouette Coefficient = (x-y)/ max(x,y)], range contain -1 to +1.Value near +1 indicate that the cluster are well apart from each other and well separated, value 0 means distance between cluster is not significant and value near -1 implies that clusters are assigned in wrong way.
  ***
  ##Vectorized backtesting
  * Vectorized backtesting is a powerful and efficient approach to backtesting the “pure” performance of a prediction-based algorithmic trading strategy. Hereby, we find out the return from the given features using numpy log and then the position represented as +1 or -1, are multiplied by the relevant log return.
    We get algorithmic trading strategy mention ‘start_clus’. The possible result comes out since a long position earns the positive return and a short position earns the negative return of the several companies.
    Summarize value of the return and the trading strategy shows up the final performance considering with or without trading cost. Several companies result outperform and underperform due to market volatility.
    If the result outperforms the market average, investor might consider short-term investment(buy and sell)strategy and if it show underperform then investor might consider long term investment strategy (buy and hold).
  ***
  
